		  COMMERCIAL AND NON-COMMERCIAL USE
	    END-USER LICENSE AGREEMENT FOR COGENT SOFTWARE

IMPORTANT - READ CAREFULLY: This End-User License Agreement ("EULA")
is a legal agreement between you (either an individual or a single
entity) and Cogent Real-Time Systems Inc. ("Cogent") of 162 Guelph
Street, Suite 253, Georgetown, Ontario, L7G 5X7, Canada (Tel:
905-702-7851, Fax: 905-702-7850), from whom you acquired the Cogent
software product(s) ("SOFTWARE PRODUCT" or "SOFTWARE"), either
directly from Cogent or through one of Cogent's authorized resellers.
The SOFTWARE PRODUCT includes computer software, any associated media,
any printed materials, and any "online" or electronic documentation.
By installing, copying or otherwise using the SOFTWARE PRODUCT, you
agree to be bound by the terms of this EULA.  If you do not agree with
the terms of this EULA, Cogent is unwilling to license the SOFTWARE
PRODUCT to you.  In such event, you may not use or copy the SOFTWARE
PRODUCT, and you should promptly contact Cogent for instructions on
return of the unused product(s) for a refund.

SOFTWARE PRODUCT LICENSE

The SOFTWARE PRODUCT is protected by copyright laws and copyright
treaties, as well as other intellectual property laws and treaties.
The SOFTWARE PRODUCT is licensed, not sold.

1. NON-COMMERCIAL USE: This software is distributed as "Free for
   Non-Commercial Use", and with a per-use royalty for Commercial Use.
   This EULA intends to make it easy for developers and end users to
   use Cogent's software Non-Commercial Purposes, where
   "Non-Commercial Purposes" means:
  
   (1) to evaluate Cogent's software and to do exploratory development
       and "proof of concept" prototyping of software applications
       (e.g., control systems, graphical interfaces and embedded
       systems), whether at home for personal use or at work as a
       prototyping tool, and

   (2) to create applications for personal use,

   and where "Non-Commercial Purposes" specifically excludes without
   limitation:

   (1) personal use of the SOFTWARE PRODUCT in a business setting or
       in support of a business activity,

   (2) development of a system to be used for commercial gain, whether
       to be sold or to be used within a company, partnership,
       organization or entity that transacts commercial business,

   (3) the use of the SOFTWARE PRODUCT in a commercial business for
       any reason other than exploratory development and "proof of
       concept" prototyping, even if the SOFTWARE PRODUCT is not
       incorporated into an application or product to be sold,

   (4) the use of the SOFTWARE PRODUCT to enable the use of another
       application that was developed with the SOFTWARE PRODUCT,

   (5) inclusion of the SOFTWARE PRODUCT in a collection of software,
       whether that collection is sold, given away, or made part of a
       larger collection.

   (6) inclusion of the SOFTWARE PRODUCT in another product, whether
       or not that other product is sold, given away, or made part of
       a larger product.

2. COMMERCIAL USE: COMMERCIAL USE is any use that is not specifically
   defined in this license as NON-COMMERCIAL USE.

3. GRANT OF LICENSE: This EULA covers both COMMERCIAL and
   NON-COMMERCIAL USE of the SOFTWARE PRODUCT.  Either clause (A) or
   (B) of this section will apply to you, depending on your actual use
   of the SOFTWARE PRODUCT.

   (A) GRANT OF LICENSE (NON-COMMERCIAL USE): This EULA grants you
       the following non-exclusive rights when used for
       NON-COMMERCIAL purposes:

       Software: You may use the SOFTWARE PRODUCT on any number of
       computers, either stand-alone, or on a network, so long as
       every use of the SOFTWARE PRODUCT is for NON-COMMERCIAL USE.
       You may reproduce the SOFTWARE PRODUCT, but only as reasonably
       required to install and use it in accordance with this LICENSE
       or to follow your normal back-up practices.

       Subject to the license expressly granted above, you obtain no
       right, title or interest in or to the SOFTWARE PRODUCT or
       related documentation, including but not limited to any
       copyright, patent, trade secret or other proprietary rights
       therein.  All whole or partial copies of the SOFTWARE PRODUCT
       remain property of Cogent and will be considered part of the
       SOFTWARE PRODUCT for the purpose of this EULA.

       Unless expressly permitted under this EULA or otherwise by Cogent,
       you will not:

          i) use, reproduce, modify, adapt, translate or otherwise
             transmit the SOFTWARE PRODUCT or related components, in
             whole or in part;

         ii) rent, lease, license, transfer or otherwise provide access
             to the SOFTWARE PRODUCT or related components;

        iii) alter, remove or cover proprietary notices in or on the
             SOFTWARE PRODUCT, related documentation or storage media;

         iv) nexport the SOFTWARE PRODUCT from the country in which it was
             provided to you by Cogent or its authorized reseller;

          v) use a multi-processor version of the SOFTWARE PRODUCT in
             a network larger than that for which you have paid the
             corresponding multi-processor fees;

         vi) decompile, disassemble or otherwise attempt or assist others to
             reverse engineer the SOFTWARE PRODUCT; or

        vii) use the SOFTWARE PRODUCT in any application that is
             intended to create or could, in the event of malfunction
             or failure, cause serious personal injury or property
             damage.

       viii) make use of the SOFTWARE PRODUCT for commercial gain,
             whether directly, indirectly or incidentally.

   (B) GRANT OF LICENSE (COMMERCIAL USE): This EULA grants you the
       following non-exclusive rights when used for COMMERCIAL purposes:

       Software: You may use the SOFTWARE PRODUCT on one computer, or
       if the SOFTWARE PRODUCT is a multi-processor version - on one
       node of a network, either: (i) as a development systems for the
       purpose of creating value-added software applications in
       accordance with related Cogent documentation; or (ii) as a
       single run-time copy for use as an integral part of such an
       application.  This includes reproduction and configuration of
       the SOFTWARE PRODUCT, but only as reasonably required to
       install and use it in association with your licensed processor
       or to follow your normal back-up practices.

       Storage/Network Use: You may also store or install a copy of
       the SOFTWARE PRODUCT on one computer to allow your other
       computers to use the SOFTWARE PRODUCT over an internal network,
       and distribute the SOFTWARE PRODUCT to your other computers
       over an internal network.  However, you must acquire and
       dedicate a license for the SOFTWARE PRODUCT for each computer
       on which the SOFTWARE PRODUCT is used or to which it is
       distributed.  A license for the SOFTWARE PRODUCT may not be
       shared or used concurrently on different computers.

       Subject to the license expressly granted above, you obtain no
       right, title or interest in or to the SOFTWARE PRODUCT or
       related documentation, including but not limited to any
       copyright, patent, trade secret or other proprietary rights
       therein.  All whole or partial copies of the SOFTWARE PRODUCT
       remain property of Cogent and will be considered part of the
       SOFTWARE PRODUCT for the purpose of this EULA.

       Unless expressly permitted under this EULA or otherwise by Cogent,
       you will not:

         i) use, reproduce, modify, adapt, translate or otherwise transmit
            the SOFTWARE PRODUCT or related components, in whole or in part;

        ii) rent, lease, license, transfer or otherwise provide access to
            the SOFTWARE PRODUCT or related components;

       iii) alter, remove or cover proprietary notices in or on the
            SOFTWARE PRODUCT, related documentation or storage media;

        iv) export the SOFTWARE PRODUCT from the country in which it was
            provided to you by Cogent or its authorized reseller;

         v) use a multi-processor version of the SOFTWARE PRODUCT in a
            network larger than that for which you have paid the
            corresponding multi-processor fees;

        vi) decompile, disassemble or otherwise attempt or assist others to
            reverse engineer the SOFTWARE PRODUCT; or

       vii) use the SOFTWARE PRODUCT in any application that is
            intended to create or could, in the event of malfunction
            or failure, cause serious personal injury or property
            damage.

4. WARRANTY: Cogent cannot warrant that the SOFTWARE PRODUCT will
   function in accordance with related documentation in every
   combination of hardware platform, software environment and SOFTWARE
   PRODUCT configuration.  You acknowledge that software bugs are
   likely to be identified when the SOFTWARE PRODUCT is used in your
   particular application.  You therefore accept the responsibility of
   satisfying yourself that the SOFTWARE PRODUCT is suitable for your
   intended use.  This includes conducting exhaustive testing of your
   application prior to its initial release and prior to the release
   of any related hardware or software modifications or enhancements.

   Subject to documentation errors, Cogent warrants to you for a
   period of ninety (90) days from acceptance of this EULA (as
   provided above) that the SOFTWARE PRODUCT as delivered by Cogent is
   capable of performing the functions described in related Cogent
   user documentation when used on appropriate hardware.  Cogent also
   warrants that any enclosed disk(s) will be free from defects in
   material and workmanship under normal use for a period of ninety
   (90) days from acceptance of this EULA.  Cogent is not responsible
   for disk defects that result from accident or abuse.  Your sole
   remedy for any breach of warranty will be either: i) terminate this
   EULA and receive a refund of any amount paid to Cogent for the
   SOFTWARE PRODUCT, or ii) to receive a replacement disk.

5. LIMITATIONS: Except as expressly warranted above, the SOFTWARE
   PRODUCT, any related documentation and disks are provided "as is"
   without other warranties or conditions of any kind, including but
   not limited to implied warranties of merchantability, fitness for a
   particular purpose and non-infringement.  You assume the entire
   risk as to the results and performance of the SOFTWARE PRODUCT.
   Nothing stated in this EULA will imply that the operation of the
   SOFTWARE PRODUCT will be uninterrupted or error free or that any
   errors will be corrected.  Other written or oral statements by
   Cogent, its representatives or others do not constitute warranties
   or conditions of Cogent.

   In no event will Cogent (or its officers, employees, suppliers,
   distributors, or licensors: collectively "Its Representatives") be
   liable to you for any indirect, incidental, special or
   consequential damages whatsoever, including but not limited to loss
   of revenue, lost or damaged data or other commercial or economic
   loss, arising out of any breach of this EULA, any use or inability
   to use the SOFTWARE PRODUCT or any claim made by a third party,
   even if Cogent (or Its Representatives) have been advised of the
   possibility of such damage or claim.  In no event will the
   aggregate liability of Cogent (or that of Its Representatives) for
   any damages or claim, whether in contract, tort or otherwise,
   exceed the amount paid by you for the SOFTWARE PRODUCT.

   These limitations shall apply whether or not the alleged breach or
   default is a breach of a fundamental condition or term, or a
   fundamental breach.  Some jurisdictions do not allow the exclusion
   or limitation of liability for consequential or incidental damages,
   or certain limitations of implied warranties.  Therefore the above
   limitation may not apply to you.

6. DESCRIPTION OF OTHER RIGHTS AND LIMITATIONS:

   Separation of Components: The SOFTWARE PRODUCT is licensed as a
   single product.  Its component parts may not be separated for use
   on more than one computer.

   Termination: Without prejudice to any other rights, Cogent may
   terminate this EULA if you fail to comply with the terms and
   conditions of this EULA.  In such an event, you must destroy all
   copies of the SOFTWARE PRODUCT and all of its component parts.

7. UPGRADES: If the SOFTWARE PRODUCT is an upgrade from another
   product, whether from Cogent or another supplier, you may use or
   transfer the SOFTWARE PRODUCT only in conjunction with that upgrade
   product, unless you destroy the upgraded product.  If the SOFTWARE
   PRODUCT is an upgrade of a Cogent product, you now may use that
   upgraded product only in accordance with this EULA.  If the
   SOFTWARE PRODUCT is an upgrade of a component of a package of
   software programs which you licensed as a single product, the
   SOFTWARE PRODUCT may be used and transferred only as part of that
   single product package and may not be separated for use on more
   than one computer.

8. COPYRIGHT: All title and copyrights in and to the SOFTWARE PRODUCT
   (including but not limited to any images, photographs, animations,
   video, audio, music, text and 'applets", incorporated into the
   SOFTWARE PRODUCT), any accompanying printed material, and any
   copies of the SOFTWARE PRODUCT, are owned by Cogent or its
   suppliers.  You may not copy the printed materials accompanying the
   SOFTWARE PRODUCT.  All rights not specifically granted under this
   EULA are reserved by Cogent.

9. PRODUCT SUPPORT: Cogent has no obligation under this EULA to
   provide maintenance, support or training.

10. RESTRICTED RIGHTS: Use, duplication, or disclosure by the U.S.
   Government is subject to restrictions as provided in DFARS
   227.7202-1(a) and 227.7202-3(a) (1995), DFARS
   252.227-7013(c)(1)(ii) (OCT 1988), FAR 12.212(a)(1995), FAR
   52.227-19, or FAR 52.227-14 (ALT III), as appropriate.
   Manufacturer is Cogent Real-Time Systems Inc. 162 Guelph Street,
   Suite 253, Georgetown, Ontario, L7G 5X7, Canada.

SPECIAL PROVISIONS

If you acquired the SOFTWARE in Canada, this Software License
Agreement is governed by the laws of the Province of Ontario, Canada.
Each of the parties hereto irrevocably attorns to the jurisdiction of
the courts of the Province of Ontario and further agrees to commence
any litigation that may arise hereunder in the courts located in the
Judicial District of Mississauga, Province of Ontario.  If you
acquired the SOFTWARE outside Canada, local law may apply.
